[Jip barks]
[birds chirping]
[Poly] There once
was a peculiar doctor,
known for his extraordinary ability.
-He could talk to animals.
-[hippo grunts]
Dr. Dolittle's reputation
spread far and wide.
Even the Queen of England
called on him.
So grateful for his help,
she gifted him
a wondrous sanctuary
whose doors were open
to all creatures.
His days belonged to the animals,
but his heart belonged to one woman,
Lily, the fearless explorer.
They traveled the globe,
going on great adventures.
Defending creatures who could not
defend themselves.
[teeth chattering]
They made an extraordinary team.
Soon, that team became a family.
With Lily by his side,
Dolittle never felt more alive.
Until one day,
she left on an adventure.
[thunder crashing]
Lily died at sea.
Heartbroken,
he locked the gates of the manor
and completely retreated
from the world.
As for me, and the animals
whose lives he'd saved,
we were left to wonder,
could anyone save his?
Until one morning,
a most unlikely creature
found its way
into Dolittle's life.
A very special boy.
In a time where people
thought of animals
only as possessions,
food, or sport,
this boy felt quite differently.
[chittering]
[screeches]
This way,
me scattered squirrel.
Right.
Junior flushes them.
You shoot them, yeah?
[Arnall Jr.] Right.
Good plan, Dad.
[Arnall] Get ready.
Shoulder your gun.
[Stubbins] Do I have to, Uncle?
[Arnall] Come on, boy.
[Arnall Jr.] Duck! Duck!
[ducks quacking]
Duck, duck, duck!
There, there they go.
Shoot, shoot, shoot.
You got him, you got him,
you got him. Shoot, shoot, shoot.
[Stubbins] Oh, no, I can't!
[Arnall] Shoot,
shoot, shoot.
[grunts]
[ducks quacking]
You can't keep
missing on purpose.
[Arnall Jr.] Oh, look.
He hit something this time.
[gasps]
[pained chittering]
[Stubbins] Oh, no.
We have to help him.
[Arnall] Aye.
We never leave
an animal suffering.
Not on our error.
Here you go.
[Arnall] He's a very odd boy.
[squirrel chitters]
[wheezing]
[trills]
[purrs]
[Poly] Follow Poly.
[Stubbins] "Home of Dr. John
and Lily Dolittle.
"We treat all animals."
[squirrel breathing laboriously]
[Poly] Uh-uh. Follow Poly.
Secret entrance.
[breathing heavily]
[animal grunts]
[elephant trumpets]
[animals calling]
[Poly chatters]
[takes deep breath]
[giraffe grunts]
[Poly squawking]
Poly? Where'd you go?
[branches rustling]
[grunting]
[Stubbins gasping]
[nervously] Uh...
Good dog.
Big, hairy...
[bellows]
[Stubbins screams]
[Stubbins grunting]
[bellowing]
[Poly squawking]
[breathing heavily]
[Yoshi grunting]
[Poly squawking]
[tile clacks]
[quacking]
[man coughs]
[birds chirping]
[mice squeaking]
[Dab-dab quacking]
[mice chatter]
[squeaking]
[soft grunting]
[clicking tounge]
[mouse squeaking]
[vocalizes]
[grunting]
[squeaking]
[mice squealing]
[groans]
[mice chattering]
[mice squealing]
[wolf-whistles]
[mouse grunts inquisitively]
[grunts]
[sniffs, clears throat]
[Chee-chee grunting]
[mice squeaking]
[mouse groans]
[cheers]
[groans]
[laughs]
[Dab-dab quacking]
[Dolittle hooting]
[Chee-chee continues laughing]
[tapping on window]
[Jip barking]
[Poly squawking]
[Dolittle growling]
[screams softly]
[peacock screaming]
[snarling and growling]
It's not good.
As far as I'm concerned,
I'm the only human here.
Just ignore them.
There's no getting past
a Kalahari snare, Doc.
It's an ingenious design.
I think you just caught
yourself a boy.
Let me see.
Wait. I don't wanna see.
[tapping on window]
Just make it go away.
Deep breaths, Doc.
Dab-Dab's got your back.
[Poly] Don't be afraid, John.
It's just a boy.
This is an opportunity.
This is a nightmare!
[yells]
[Stubbins grunting]
[Girl] Pardon me.
[rain pattering]
Whatever are you
doing up there?
I've come from Buckingham Palace
on urgent business.
Can you tell me if this is the home
of John Dolittle?
Who are you?
You may call me Lady Rose.
And you are?
Stubbins.
Could you help me down?
This goes against Dolittle's rules.
Why are humans
against the rules, again?
If you let humans too close,
you'll get hurt more than you would
if you didn't let them in at all.
Isn't that right, Doc?
That's enough, everybody.
Back to our routine.
-We have a very full day.
-[Poly] John!
Pull yourself together.
You can't ignore people
just because they're, eh, people.
What if they need help?
[knocking on door]
Ooh.
Possum, play dead.
[grunts]
[Poly] This is ridiculous.
Chee-Chee,
will you answer the door?
You're the only one with arms.
[Chee-chee] I think chess was enough
pressure for one day.
[Dolittle] Chee-Chee boy,
this is what we trained for.
Be brave and get rid of them.
And don't forget your mantra.
"I am not a prisoner of fear"?
You're not a prisoner of fear.
[knocking]
Have you been here before?
The queen's told me all about it.
It's a most unusual place.
I'm prepared for anything.
[roars]
[high-pitched scream]
[both screaming
in high-pitched voice]
[gasping]
Wonderful.
A gorilla answering the door.
Just as the queen said.
[high-pitched scream]
[door shuts]
[gasping]
Oh... Wait a minute...
I have an injured squirrel.
[kissing]
[sniffs] I should never
have let you go.
[grunts softly]
Hello?
[gasps]
[birds chirping]
[train horn tooting]
Oh, look at you.
Aren't you peculiar,
posing as a twig?
[door opens]
[Dolittle] Move, please.
This is my hiding spot.
[Dab-dab quacking]
Not here.
[hesitates] Are you
all right down there?
Yeah. Fine. Go on.
-Dr. Dolittle?
-Yeah, right.
You have been summoned
to Buckingham Palace
by the queen herself.
Whoo-ha. [flaps lips]
Go on.
You should know,
she's fallen gravely ill.
[quacks in shock]
Do you understand what I'm saying?
[enunciates] Go on.
Go on and be gone!
[jingling] I don't care about anyone,
anything, anywhere, anymore.
The birds will show you out.
[bell continues jingling]
Right, everything's tidy.
Lunch will be served
in a minute, now.
[horn toots]
[steam hissing]
[Dab-dab] Mmm!
Smells lovely, Doc.
[Dolittle] Thanks very much.
[Mouse] Hey, Doc,
save some for us this time.
Sorry, Doc.
Guess I'm scared of kids, too.
[Dolittle] Don't worry about that.
Come on, let's eat.
I'm going to be offering
today a brothy soup.
[Yoshi] You'll never believe
what we caught in the net.
The queen has asked
for you by name, sir.
Are you hard of hearing?
I told you
I'm closed for business.
[thud]
[Yoshi mumbling]
What business?
[clattering]
Treating humans.
[grunts]
[dinging]
Intruder alert!
[Yoshi groans]
[Dab-dab quacks]
[Jip barking]
[Dolittle gasps]
Don't worry.
I'm fine.
Well, I'm not.
My house is descending into chaos.
Is he yours?
I don't own anybody.
Yoshi had an issue
that he came to me with.
[groans]
He's always cold.
I have an injured squirrel.
I don't know what to do.
How was he injured?
I...
I shot him.
What? I can't hear you.
But it was an accident.
Of course,
an accidental firing-upon.
Humans never change.
He's very hurt.
[chitters weakly]
Please help him.
[grunts softly]
Take that...
and this.
[whimpering]
[Squirrel weakly] I...
I... I...
I'm too beautiful to die.
[Jip whines]
[quacks]
[squirrel groans]
[blowing]
[gasps]
[moans softly]
Yes?
He's with us.
Dab-Dab, Jip.
[quacks]
Light the lamps,
disinfect the surgery.
You will not tend to a squirrel...
while the Queen of England's
life hangs in the balance.
Oh, you don't know me
very well, do you?
Don't drop him.
We got a code red.
Code red, code red, everybody!
[Yoshi] The doctor is back.
[Chee-chee] Hang on, little buddy.
Whew! I haven't done this in a while.
Let's get everything
the way Doc likes it.
[Chee-chee] Don't worry.
We got you, pal.
[gasps]
[Dolittle] Right-o, let's save
this squirrel, shall we?
[Dab-dab] Okay.
[Dolittle] When you wake up,
everything will be fine.
If I die, I swear
I will haunt your house.
[Dolittle] Sterilize the scalpels.
Do not lick any instruments.
[Jip] Patient's condition
has stabilized.
[Jip barking]
[Dab-dab quacking]
They're understanding him,
and he's understanding them...
in their own languages.
[Dab-dab quacking]
[Chee-chee hotting]
[Jip barking]
[Jip] Going through the left ventricle,
it's brilliant.
Wow.
[Dolittle] Dab-Dab, forceps, please.
Here you go.
That's a piece of celery.
Forceps, Dab-Dab.
Oh, sorry. Here you go.
Still celery.
Forcep?
-Carrot, that is.
-Forcep?
That's a different piece of celery.
Got it. Forcep.
No, still celery.
Never mind, I'll get it myself.
[sighs]
I wanna know
how to talk to the animals.
[Dolittle] Chee-Chee, brow.
My brow as well,
when you've got a second.
Right. Sorry.
I'm going to come here
and be Dolittle's apprentice.
Her Majesty has designated
this land a nature preserve.
If she dies,
the deed will be
owned by the Treasury,
and this place goes away.
-Shut down?
-Mm-hmm.
[Dolittle] There you are.
-[Dab-dab] Whoo, still got it, Doc!
-[Dolittle] Phew.
[Chee-chee] Ooh, whoa.
Ah. There, Cheech.
[Chee-chee humming]
That's the spot.
Keep an eye on Kevin, shall we?
He may be prickly when
the anesthetic wears off.
[screams]
Revenge.
[Poly] Okay, okay,
enough with the pampering.
You need to go and help the queen.
There are things I no longer do.
Work with humans,
or leave the house.
Or bathe.
Oh, exercise.
Express emotional vulnerability.
Wake up, John.
If the queen dies,
the Treasury takes the deed,
and we lose this house.
You're talking out
of your tail feathers, Poly.
The deed was for life.
The last time I checked,
I was very much alive.
The queen's life, John.
Not yours.
Look at that! It just rolls off my back.
[chuckles]
I knew I shouldn't have let monkeys
proofread the contract.
Elliot, Elsie,
you are fired!
[both gasps]
It gets worse.
We'll be thrown out of these gates
right in the middle of hunting season!
-What?
-[Dolittle] No, no, no.
Breathe, Chee-Chee.
We get kicked out if the queen dies?
We're gonna be hunted!
Everybody, calm down.
[gasping]
Look at the state of him now.
Hmm!
Fear not, I have an in
at, uh, Regent's Park Zoo.
Everyone, pack your bags!
[blows]
Uh-uh.
You help the queen,
or we are leaving.
You're bluffing.
Don't make me count.
One...
Three!
...two...
All right! I'll do it.
-[all cheering]
-[Jip] Marvelous.
Right, let's get you
ready to go, honey.
-I'll go as I am.
-[Poly] Not looking like that.
-Just grab my doctor's bag.
-[Poly] Get him.
-[Jip] Apologies, Doc.
-[Chee-chee] Hold still, now.
Take your paws off me!
[vocalizes tauntingly]
This isn't gonna hurt a bit.
[Poly] Let's clean him up.
How dare you?
[grunts]
[Mouse] Oh, hey, guys.
Arthur? How long have
you been living in there?
I don't know. What year is it?
[gasps]
Dab-Dab's got the razor.
[Dolittle] That's still celery.
Nighty-night, Doc.
[chitters]
[Stubbins] Dolittle used to travel
all around the world.
Look.
[Dolittle] Ah. Rummaging through
my private projects, is it?
How is he?
[Dolittle] Well, first things first,
the squirrel's name is Kevin.
[groans]
Expect a full recovery.
And after some violent grooming,
it's been decided.
We will accompany you
to Buckingham Palace, after all.
Hmm. You are going back to whatever
burrow you emerged from.
Try not to shoot anything
on your way home.
Maybe I should stay here.
I don't do well in crowds.
[Poly] We'll look after you, Cheech.
But we all go together,
just like the old days.
Ooh, don't forget Doc's forceps.
That's a leek, Dab-Dab.
[chuckles] Sure, it is.
[sniffs] Styx?
No.
Where are you? Oh.
So, would you care to come along?
[stridulating]
I know.
I had other plans, as well.
-[horn hooting]
-[Mini] Hurry up. Hurry up.
Shh.
[chuckles softly]
[Dolittle] Prepare my ride!
Ah, today's gonna be a good day.
I'm gonna do nothing.
Just prance around,
think my own thoughts,
and... Oh.
He's walking this way,
not a great sign.
He's got no beard.
He looks motivated.
-No. Plimpton, don't be alarmed.
-[Plimpton] Ahh.
People only say that
when they're about to be alarming.
-Look, I know it's been a while.
-Sorry about this.
And sorry about that!
[Dolittle] All right.
I'm unavailable. Ahh!
Unavailable for the man
who changed your life?
We're going to save
the queen, bro!
I am not your bro.
You should be an Eskimo's rug by now.
-Ow. Claws!
-Ow. Beak!
-Claws.
-Beak.
[Dolittle] Now, now, gentlemen.
[sighs]
Oh, you've gained weight.
Why are you riding me?
There's, like, four horses in front of us.
[Yoshi] Cheer up, angry bird.
Kick back and enjoy the ride.
[Plimpton] I am the ride.
[Dab-dab] Buckingham Palace!
We've hit the big time!
[guards shouting in unison]
[Dolittle] Full speed no longer required!
[Driver] Whoa.
[Sir Gareth] Welcome home, milady.
[grunts]
-[groans]
-[Yoshi grunting]
Guards! Guards!
[Jip barking]
[clears throat]
Your Ladyship, Rose.
They are the queen's own guests.
Treat them accordingly.
[Dolittle] You better give us
a wide berth!
Make way, boys!
Plimpton!
Don't! Stop!
[Plimpton] Don't stop?
Odd decision, but--
-[Dolittle] Stop! Whoa!
-[Plimpton laughing]
[sighs]
Ahh! Can't see!
[yells]
Oh, my God!
Okay.
I blame the hat.
[Man] Dr. Mdfly.
Lord Badgley.
[Attendant] My Lord.
I come from the House of Lords.
There is great concern
for Her Majesty's health.
I shall continue to leech
to circulate the vapors
in the bloodstream.
She'll be lucky to last the week.
This is not the first time
Dr. Dolittle's been here.
You got a dying queen?
Not for long.
Dr. Dolittle is in the...
-[Dab-dab quacking]
-[Jip barking]
Oh, oh. Wait! Wait for me!
A stowaway, my lady
who claims to be...
Dr. Dolittle's apprentice!
It's quite all right, Gareth.
[Dolittle] Well, if he was my apprentice,
he should fetch my bags
and keep his gob shut.
[quacking]
[attendants exclaim]
[Female attendant] I say! Unheard of!
What on Earth?
[Mdfly] Animals in the queen's chamber?
I demand their immediate removal.
Ah, Lady Rose. My apologies.
Please forgive me.
I didn't realize
that you were part of...
John Dolittle?
[Dolittle] Is that Blaine?
[Mdfly] Blair.
Poopfling?
[Mdfly] No. It was Mudflap?
-No, it's Mdfly.
-Mdfly.
-With an umlaut.
-Yes.
-From the German.
-Of course. From the Germans.
Why is he here?
Her Majesty has personally
requested Dr. Dolittle.
[Attendants murmuring]
[Dolittle] Well, then, let's get to work.
All right, Jip,
give her a good sniff.
[attendants exclaim]
[sniffing]
[Male attendant] That dog
is licking the queen.
This is outrageous.
[growls]
[attendants exclaim]
[Dolittle] Oh, bark.
You all right, fellow?
Something smelled wrong.
And that's coming from a guy who loves
the smell of butts.
[Dolittle] Oh, you do love butt.
I detected a whiff of something else.
Floral, with earthy...
[Jip barking and growling]
I'm perplexed, Doc. I've never smelled
anything like it before.
Uh, clearly,
Jipsy and I are out of our depths.
May we consult?
Well, of course. I'd be more than happy
to help illuminate...
[inhales sharply]
Did you see anything unusual?
Snitches get glitches, man.
John and I were students
at Edinburgh years ago.
Some thought he had
a gift for observation.
Leona...
Okay, she drank tea and then fell down.
[exhales deeply]
[chittering]
Ugh.
Oh. Sorry about that, Mini.
[chittering]
Stay here.
Dab-Dab, clear out the humans.
Boyo, fetch the Botanical Index
and the tea tin.
Everyone out!
Do you understand the words
coming out of my bill?
[sniffing]
[Dolittle] What do you smell, Jip?
Elderberries?
Hemlock?
[Jip whimpers]
Negative.
[barks]
Aye, aye.
[sniffing]
[barks]
[sighs]
What have you found, Dolittle?
Well, quite possibly
the answer to everything.
Exposure to toxins...
[quietly] God, he was
like this at school.
"Lean in, lean in, I'm saying
something interesting."
I am interested.
The queen's symptoms
are due to
the effect of a rare Sumatran plant...
known as the Nightshade flower.
A solar eclipse will occur on the 17th
of this very month.
If she has not received
the antidote by then, she will perish.
Is that a Turner?
Must be. What a fine painting.
I say, Dolittle, what is your plan?
[Dolittle] The plan?
I suppose we do need one.
Well, the queen's only hope is a cure
that's never been tested
from a tree that's never been seen,
on an island that's never been found.
Sounds ridiculous, saying it out loud.
But regardless of that,
we have no choice but to embark
on this perilous journey
to obtain the fruit of the Eden Tree.
[Leona] What? [coughs]
[Mdfly] Eden Tree.
Oh, my. Fantastic.
The Dolittle's with
their Eden Tree Island.
Isn't it enough that your wife--
Shut up, Blair!
Sorry, I meant to say,
"Lovely to see you again, Blair."
We're off now.
Ta-ra.
Oh, its fruit is said to cure every
malady known to man.
Grant eternal life,
[scoffs]
even restore the hair on your head.
You must let nothing
pass her lips
that hasn't been made
and served by you.
Clear?
[Lady Rose] Yes, I'll see to it.
That's us to the carriage.
Jip, you need to stay behind
and guard the queen.
Very important.
Right, guard dog mode.
Stand back, everyone,
while I secure the perimeter.
[Jip panting]
Excuse me.
I do so admire how you don't give up.
The queen is counting on both of you.
Good luck.
[horse whinnies]
[Dolittle] Right, chop-chop.
We got a long voyage in front of us,
and the boat isn't gonna sail itself.
[Yoshi grunting]
Deep breath, Yoshi.
We haven't got all day.
[Dab-dab struggling]
Seems like she's full up.
[straining] Maybe we could
squeeze in one more.
Plenty of room.
Oh, no.
[Dolittle] Uh, Plimpton,
I mean, one more stop, good fellow.
[Plimpton] I can't hear you
because I am not here.
Well, I believe it's time to go
our separate ways.
Uh, I'm going with you.
Certainly not.
It's far too treacherous.
I'm your apprentice.
You? No, no, no.
[Plimpton] Oh, you have
an apprentice?
You don't need an apprentice
and an ostrich.
I'll go home.
I didn't want to be embarrassed,
so I pretended you belonged.
I was helpful in there, wasn't I?
-Hmm.
-The animals like me.
I don't take up much space.
I think I belong here.
Don't make me go home.
Please.
[sighs]
[children screaming playfully]
[indistinct chatter]
What is that around your neck?
Come on.
I'm worried about the boy, Bethan.
Give him time. Time is all.
We're hunters, Bethan.
Hunters!
It has a certain...
We hunt things.
He frees things.
The rabbits and mice.
He carries spiders outside.
Nobody likes spiders.
Not even spiders.
I don't know how your sister
put up with him.
[rooster crows in distance]
Ugh.
[soft screech]
[gasping]
[Poly grunts]
Poly?
What are you doing here?
Making sure you don't miss the boat.
Am I talking to an animal?
-Just like Dolittle?
-Oh, no.
I'm speaking human, better than
any parrot ever has actually.
Now, let's pack some clothes.
Come on.
[grunts]
[Poly grunting]
But Dolittle said I belong here.
Little help, Tutu?
Well, I never heard him say
anything of the sort.
There's something
special about you, Stubbins.
Something I've only seen
in two other humans.
You belong with us, kid.
And you let me worry about Dolittle.
That's my job.
So, are you ready for
the adventure of a lifetime?
I'm in.
Of course, you are.
Poly, let's move.
We got a boat to catch,
and we're burning daylight.
Fret not, ma chrie.
We have the perfect plan.
[whooping]
[Betsy] Ahh! New plan! New plan!
[Office] Come on!
Don't let them get away!
Why are they chasing us?
We're not criminals.
Speak for yourself!
We're wanted in three forests!
And it's not an escape mission
unless you're being chased.
[all yelling]
-[grunts]
-[Betsy] That tickles!
Which way, Tutu?
[Tutu] Down!
[Betsy] Clear the way!
[Officer] Hey! This way!
[Tutu] Get off the road, ma chrie!
[Betsy] See you later, suckers.
Whew! We've done it!
We've done it! We've...
...missed it.
[Betsy] Okay, boss,
what's our next move?
We cut our losses.
Change our identities.
Ditch the kid in the river.
Whoa, whoa, whoa. Easy.
What about that bridge?
[Poly] Yes, the bridge.
Uh, that was my next suggestion.
Let's go!
[Chee-chee] Come on, Doc!
At least get out of the hammock!
Your seasickness will wear off.
[Yoshi] Try some of this ginger root.
You'll get your sea legs back.
You look terrible.
Ah, button it!
Who put me in this hammock?
I am the captain of this ship, right?
Raise the blasted sails, will you?
Uh, that's a big bite.
[gags]
Everyone, look!
Is that the boy?
He's coming to finish the job!
He won't rest till I'm dead!
He's obsessed!
[Poly] John, slow the boat down.
No, I want to go faster.
[Dab-dab] Sorry, kid.
Doc says no.
We're going to miss
all the good current!
-I hope you make it.
-Me, too, Dabs!
[Tutu] All right, Bets,
moment of truth.
Whoa. Big hole! 12 o'clock!
Maybe this was a bad idea.
-Let's go, Stubbins, let's go.
-Come on, kid. Get on the boat!
[Betsy] I've run out of track!
[Tutu] But not courage!
Fly and be free!
-[Betsy] Whoa!
-[Stubbins yelping]
[grunts]
[exclaims in French]
[rattling]
[grunting]
[Dab-dab] Whoo! Is that thing
up to code?
[rattling]
Whoa. Whoa!
[wind whistling]
No! Oh, no!
[shuddering]
Jump, murderer!
You got this.
[shudders]
[Stubbins yelling]
-[gasps]
-Oh, I can't look.
[Stubbins continues yelling]
No, no, no!
[Chipmunks] Whoa!
[Chipmunks giggling] Do it again!
Do it again! Do it again!
[Yoshi] Yes!
Crushed it, kid.
[Chee-chee] You made it.
Why y'all cheering
for the kid who shot me?
[Chee-chee hoots softly]
[Dolittle] Ah, he's all right!
-[clears throat] Darling.
-[Poly squawks]
Can I have a word, please?
[Poly] Glad you came around
and saw things my way...
[Poly yelps]
What is she thinking?
The boy nearly killed himself.
[Poly squawks]
Oi! This is my ship, right?
And I'm its sovereign.
And there are consequences...
"...to ignoring me."
Is that what you were going to say?
No, no.
Don't mince my words.
And stop messing with my routine.
Look at the state of you.
You're sick as a dog.
Actually, I have my medicine.
See? This licorice root
is working a treat.
Sit down, John.
[breathing sharply]
Don't embarrass me
in front of the crew.
I'm sparing you embarrassment.
You need a trim.
All right, all right, be quick.
It's important to maintain
my status, yeah?
This ship is dangerous,
no place for a... Ow.
-Ow!
-[Chee-chee] What?
[Dolittle] Hurts, man!
Private conversation!
[Animals] Okay.
[Dab-dab] Sorry.
[sighs]
I know this particular voyage
is hard for you, John.
It is for me, too.
I brought you, Lily,
just when you needed her,
and now you need
one of your own kind again.
Someone without feathers or fur.
Fine, the boy can stay,
but it will be on my terms.
And I'll keep him quite busy.
You'll do it with
a smile on your face.
Crew!
Seems you got a new shipmate.
[humming]
As I just told Poly, we are a bit
shorthanded after all, so...
You won't regret it.
Welcome aboard!
I hear you could be a big help
by cleaning this up.
That, too, if you wouldn't mind.
Oops! Those as well.
[clattering]
And that.
I got these.
[quacking]
Careful with that medical equipment!
[gasps]
[Dolittle] Because a parrot's in charge
of my ship! Brilliant!
He's absolutely thrilled to have you.
Hmm.
Hello there, little squid.
You don't understand me,
do you?
That would be preposterous.
-Mdfly--
-I wasn't talking to the squid!
I'm dispatching a frigate,
the Britannia,
to follow Dolittle.
But you must not support him
in his foolishness, my lord.
England has enemies everywhere
waiting for the slightest
sign of weakness.
Entrusting beloved Britain
to a child queen...
That is lunacy.
So, while I remain here,
ensuring no one prevents me
from taking the throne,
you will be on the Britannia,
making certain
Dolittle never returns.
[chittering]
[grunting]
[laughter]
[bell dings]
[Dolittle] Right. Round two, yeah?
You got me on the ropes,
you have, Cheech.
Come on. One-two.
Jab, jab cross.
[gasps]
The best form of defense is attack.
[Chee-chee hoots]
[animals grunting and chattering]
[Chee-chee and Yoshi chatter]
[Dab-dab quacks]
[chitters]
I really don't wanna fight you.
[Dolittle] We're not fighting, are we?
It's a therapeutic session.
[monkey's chattering]
[both continue chattering]
[hooting]
[continue chattering]
[Stubbins] I think I'm getting this.
I'm actually starting to understand.
[groans]
[gasps]
[both chatter]
[Dolittle whistling a tune]
[same tune whistling in distance]
[Lily]  Stop worrying, John.
Every step is planned out
in my journal.
I'll be back before
you even miss me.
[gasps]
[Stubbins] Are you all right?
I think I'm beginning to understand
a little bit of what
the animals are saying.
[Dolittle] Seems you are, boyo.
[gulls calling in distance]
[Plimpton] What kind of polar bear
works on their tan?
Well, what kind of a bird...
-Wait, are you even a bird?
-Of course, I am.
-Well, can you fly?
-No.
-Can you swim?
-Well, what can you do?
-I can run.
I can run.
What bird stuff can you do?
Well, what bear stuff
can you do?
[roaring]
You win this round.
[grunts]
Ro... Roar!
-Pickles?
-[roars deeper]
Oh, you were saying "warship"!
[Stubbins roars]
Weird time to be asking for pickles.
I mean, who could eat
when we're under attack?
Enemy! Starboard aft.
Elliot, you and Elsie
ready the machine.
We're gonna need speed.
Send out the call!
[both chatter in panic]
[both blowing horn]
-[Plimpton] Which way are the lifeboats?
-Mini! Mind the lookout.
[Plimpton] This whole thing is
a death boat.
Stubbins, boy, I need you now
more than ever.
To stand still.
[Plimpton] Ahh! I surrender!
We surrender!
Oh, hello, Blair,
you chinless wonder.
He said something about
my chin, didn't he?
It's a magnificent chin, sir.
We're in their sights.
Cannons are taking aim.
Let's turn this ship!
[horn continues blowing]
[Humphrey] I'm on my way!
It is time for me to slip into something
less comfortable.
[Humphrey] Hello!
I bought a front-row seat
to crazy town.
[water splashing]
Once Humphrey's been secured,
you pull me out on Yoshi's signal.
Me? I can't handle
that type of pressure, Doc.
I'm a cheer-quietly-from-
the-sidelines kind of gorilla.
Don't worry, Cheech.
You'll rise to the occasion. Huh?
You're stronger than you know.
Now, remember,
courage is not the absence of fear,
but it's... [continues indistinctly]
[Chee-chee] Wait! You got cut off!
I can't hear you!
I need the second part!
-No time, Cheech. Let's go.
-Oh.
Look, look, they're
already abandoning ship.
Boom!
Oh, this is gonna be cold.
But I'm coming in hot!
[Humphrey] Humphrey here.
Let's hook it up!
Where we headed?
[Dolittle] South!
[clicks tongue]
Okay, I can do this.
I can do this.
[Humphrey] Full steam ahead!
[Yoshi] Go, Humphrey, go!
Are they pulling away?
[both yelping]
-[Kevin] Do it, whale, do it.
-[Humphrey] Whoo-hoo!
It's working!
How is this possible?
Well, sir, it appears Dolittle and
a polar bear have harnessed a whale--
It was a rhetorical question!
Just fire!
[screams]
[Chee-chee] I dropped the rope!
[gasps, yells]
[laughs]
[gasps]
I failed. I knew I couldn't do it.
[Chee-chee whimpers]
[Stubbins grunts]
[screams]
[straining]
[Stubbins] Yoshi!
Hang on. I'm coming, kid!
[Chee-chee] No, no, no!
You're doing great!
[Plimpton] Oh, this is gonna
murder my back.
[Yoshi] Quit complaining,
you oversized flamingo.
[all yelp]
-[Plimpton gasps] Oh, no, no, no!
-Oh, no.
[wind whistling]
Oh, no.
[helmet clangs]
[whimpers]
[grunts]
[animals whooping]
[Yoshi] Oh, yes!
[whimpers]
I let you down, Doc.
Look at me, I'm fine.
We're all fine.
-I froze.
-[Dolittle] No, no, no, Cheech.
It's okay to be scared.
[Chee-chee] Mm-mm.
You saved me, did you?
Fair play.
Thanks very much.
Well done, everybody.
[exhales]
Feel like you belong now, kid?
[breathlessly]
I guess I do.
[Yoshi] We lost him.
-I guess I do.
-[Yoshi] Great work, gang.
[Mini] Eat our dust, Mdfly!
[sighs]
They've gotten away, sir.
Oh, really? I thought they disappeared
into thin air.
I'm afraid not, sir.
They've escaped.
Read the room, Lieutenant.
I can see they've escaped.
But not for long.
[Fly] It's a miracle.
That must mean
I am the Chosen One.
I'm gonna change the--
[squeals]
Whale power. [chuckles]
Dolittle had to write
a paper about it,
which of course
nobody took seriously.
This one even theorizes
the existence of dragons.
[chuckles] Just preposterous.
[Derrick] Sir, I'm afraid your obsession
with Dolittle is--
What obsession?
I'm not obsessed
with Dolittle.
You're obsessed
You're the one obsessing
about my obsession with...
[sighs]
I'm loath to admit it,
but he's more valuable alive,
for now.
But, luckily,
I think I know where he's going.
Kevin's log, day seven.
I'm now totally isolated.
The enemy has
ingratiated himself
with the captain and crew.
[all snoring]
No sign of promised tropical island
or the magic fruit.
But I will endure.
[grunts]
[Dolittle] Take the wheel, Stubbins.
-Really?
-Yeah, yeah.
I have to calculate
our route coordinates.
The bees are buzzing
about you.
Seems you are getting a rudimentary
grasp of their language.
Thirty-five degrees portside.
Well...
I have noticed when they fly
in a zig-zag pattern,
they sort of go...
[buzzing]
Which means,
"Back off, kid."
But when Dab-Dab goes...
[quacking]
That means,
"Look at this."
Mm. "Look at me."
-Oh, close.
-Not bad, though.
Oh. No, when Chee-Chee says...
When Chee-Chee says...
[vocalizing]
That means,
"Where's my blanket?"
Very good.
[wind gusts]
Is that the map
of Eden Tree Island?
The Eden Tree
cannot be found on any map.
And to call it an island
is to suggest that it is of our world,
and it is anything but.
That is why we must first
go to Monteverde,
birthplace of the only person
to ever chart a course to the tree.
Her name was Lily.
She wrote the route in a journal.
But on her voyage,
she was shipwrecked.
The world lost the greatest
explorer I've ever known.
The journal from that expedition
was all that survived.
[loud slurping]
Elliot, Elsie, do you mind?
-[burps]
-[slurps]
So, anyway,
you get the picture.
To have any chance
of finding the tree,
we have to go to Monteverde and steal
that flipping journal.
-[Dolittle sighs]
-Steal the journal?
Did I say that?
Well, what's the worst
that can happen?
[wind gusting]
Don't worry, I know an omen when
I see one, and that was not an omen.
Stealing the journal
is not a big deal!
[thunderclap]
[gasps]
In fact, Monteverde itself
is not a big deal.
[Poly] The stop at Monteverde
was a very big deal.
After all, this island
of bandits and thieves
was once a place Dolittle,
Lily, and I called home.
[both chittering]
Until the doctor made an enemy
of the island's notorious
ruler, King Rassouli.
And just our luck,
his most prized possession
was the very journal we needed to steal.
[bird squawks]
So, Dolittle needed a disguise.
[people chattering]
While I was left watching over
the rest of the crew,
Dolittle and Stubbins
snuck into the palace.
[grunts]
I'm about to die!
[gasps]
[Poly] Once inside, their path ended
at a heavily bolted door, naturally.
But Dolittle still had
questionable contacts
on the island.
[Soldier ants] Hut, hut, hut.
The opening bid will suffice.
You have my attention.
Don Carpenterino.
I'm here on behalf of these humans.
They will pay you handsomely
for your family's lock-picking skills.
You come to me for this,
on the day of my daughter's wedding?
Wait a minute.
Which daughter?
It's not... Sheila?
My Sheila?
She's getting married?
To a scorpion named Dylan.
Sorry, Boy Scout.
I guess Sheila's into bad boys now.
[mafia ants laughing]
We were gonna spend the rest
of our life spans together.
[crying]
[Don] Move on, James.
What's your human's best offer?
Two more now,
and two later. Huh?
Okay. You have yourself a deal.
See you around, Boy Scout.
[chuckles]
Guys, I'm no Boy Scout.
Also, what's a scorpion
got that I don't got?
Besides a massive stinger--
[mafia ant] Get over her, James.
You dated for two weeks.
[ants yelping]
[panting]
[Dolittle] These bars are new.
Totally messing up my plan.
I can fit through them.
No, no, no.
It's too dangerous, man.
Can't go in there on your own.
[James] Let me take him in, Doc.
I need something to distract me
from this Sheila reveal.
Are you sure your head's
in the right place, James?
Oh, yeah. I'll get the kid in,
and then fly headfirst into a brick.
[laughs]
Just kidding. I'm fine.
Aye. All right.
James will look after you.
It's fine.
Listen closely.
Get the journal and get out of there.
Go through the room quietly.
Look for the tiger's eye.
Go down the hidden staircase.
And most importantly,
keep your disguise on.
[James] There's just one little thing
you should know.
Rassouli loves his cats.
[all snoring]
[James] But that's no problem for us,
'cause we can just
fly right over the...
Wait.
Uh, I see the mistake
I made here. You can't fly.
[Stubbins grunting quietly]
Hey! Oh! Watch out!
Kitty cat on your six.
[yawns]
[James] Oh, God. Oh! Whoa, whoa!
Hey!
Slick move, kid.
[Stubbins panting]
We make a pretty good team.
A real couple of bad boys.
Okay, partner. You know where to go.
[gasps softly]
[lock clicks]
[door rumbles]
I'll keep watch on these lions.
That's what
a bad boy dragonfly does.
Would Dylan
get this close to a lion?
Would he get this close?
How about this close?
Oh...
[lion growls]
This is bad. This is very bad.
[Stubbins] "Lily Dolittle"?
[lion growls]
[James] We got the journal!
Open up!
Just kidding, he blew it.
-Bye!
-Oh, dear.
Stubbins!
[guard mutters]
Former resident here.
-[Guard] Don't move.
-Huh?
Don't touch.
[muffled yelling]
[door closing]
[Rassouli] Hmm.
All I wanted was my daughter
to marry wisely,
and instead, I got
the ringleader of a circus.
I never understood
what Lily saw in you.
A common complaint the world over
for fathers of beloved daughters.
But in this instance,
I think we can all agree,
it is particularly accurate.
[laughing]
-Huh...
-[Rassouli] Come here.
Come here.
I'm certain you didn't
mean any of that.
[grunts, chokes]
It was her journal.
The only thing of hers
my men found in the wreckage.
It belongs here.
[continues choking]
All you had to do
was never show your face again
and leave it at that.
You failed.
Now you'll pay
for taking Lily away from me.
You knew what would happen
if you returned.
Yes.
[animal growling]
[prisoners chanting]
Barry! Barry! Barry!
You should go.
It's my past that's caught up with me,
not yours. Yeah?
But you're my friend.
Go. Don't look back.
[Rassouli] You're better off
without him, kid.
Um...
I'm in compliance.
Ho-ho! Yes. Finally,
some action down here.
Boy, was it getting boring.
You know, Doc, I hate to tell you,
but you're going down,
my friend.
You'd do well to keep
your buckteeth together.
What is that smell?
Hey, fellas, I think Dr. Dolittle
did a little doo-doo.
Did Dr. Dolittle do a little doo-doo?
[Dolittle] Perhaps when I'm out of here,
I'll teach you some manners
and accept your lucky foot
as payment.
Oh, this lucky foot?
[scoffs]
Don't worry about it, Doc,
'cause both of my lucky feet
are going to be tap dancing
on your grave
when my guy's done with you!
[prisoners shouting]
Taking bets over here!
In the right corner,
wearing golden stripes,
with a sparkling record
of 872 kills,
Barry "The Butcher" Bernstein.
[prisoners chanting]
[growling]
[prisoners cheering]
Dr. Dolittle. Remember me,
your old patient?
It's Barry.
Barry. How could I forget you?
Oh, but you did, Doc.
We were just starting to make progress,
and then you ran off
with Rassouli's daughter
and abandoned me.
Well, uh...
I'm back now.
Er, perhaps we should
just pick up where we left off--
[roars]
[crowd cheers]
[Rassouli] Enjoy the feast!
[laughing]
[laughter and chatter]
[Stubbins] What will happen to Dolittle?
Well, he's a dead man.
Yeah.
He'll think he can talk
his way out of it,
but Barry has gone
completely nuts.
But you...
You are one of us now.
To Dolittle's death!
[all cheering and laughing]
[munching loudly]
-Psst.
-Hey! It's you!
You made it.
[whispering] I need you to get a message
to my friends on the boat.
A message? Sure.
When have I ever let you down?
All I hear, day after day,
[imitates his mother]
"Oh, Barry, you're such a disappointment.
Why can't you be
more like your brother?
He eats poachers
for a living, you know."
[in normal voice]
Yes, Mother, I know!
The whole jungle knows.
Oh, my head.
Your migraines are brought on
by severe maternal issues
and compounded by sibling rivalry.
Please make it stop.
Oh, no, no, no.
-Lie down.
-Oh, my head.
We could resume your treatment.
The stress is unbearable.
I just want to be a good boy.
I just want to make Mummy proud.
There we are.
No one I eat will ever be good enough.
There's the release.
Release it.
I will never be good enough.
[sobs]
Unless I eat you!
[roars]
Whoa, whoa,
whoa, whoa.
Because every mother wants their son
to grow up and eat a doctor.
You're a sick kitty.
[growling]
[yelping]
Come here, Doc.
I'll make it quick.
I've got another one
of these in an hour.
Give up, Dolittle.
You can't outsmart...
Oh. What was that?
Oh, wait!
Now it's over there.
And now it's over here.
Now it's back over there.
Got it.
And now it's over here.
Oh, I lost it.
I've got to get it.
[Dolittle] A cat is still a cat.
Easily distracted.
New game, Doc.
[Roars] Get back down here.
[Dolittle yelps]
Come on down, Doc!
[James panting]
[James] Okay, James,
you can't let this kid down.
You've gotta deliver this message.
Oh, no, it's James.
[James] From now on, no more focusing
on relationships and...
Whoa! Poly? Is that you?
-Ooh, your feathers really filled out nice
-[Poly] James? James? James!
What happened, James?
Oh, right! Message.
Huh. My bad.
The kid's been captured by Rassouli,
and Barry's about to have
Dolittle for lunch.
Looks like we're
going ashore after all.
Be a darling and grab
my dynamite, will you?
[both chuckle]
We need to split up
if we're going to pull this off.
Chee-Chee, you're coming with me.
Where are we going?
No, no, no, don't tell me.
Just tell me when we get there.
[Poly] Yoshi, create a distraction.
[Yoshi] I hope this is enough.
[people scream]
[Man] We are being attacked!
[all shouting]
[Barry] Come on down, Doc.
[Dolittle] Therapy's the answer!
Oh, no! Worse than I expected.
[Dolittle yelps, grunts]
I got you, Doc.
[Poly] Back off, Barry!
[Dolittle] Poly, don't!
[Barry growling]
[Barry] An appetizer.
[Poly groans]
[gasps]
I got you, Poly.
Any final diagnosis, Doc?
Don't you want to be the best Barry
you could be?
[growls] I'm about to.
[Chee-chee] I am not a prisoner of fear!
I'm not a prisoner of fear?
Oh, no, no, no.
It's okay to be scared.
Ow, ow.
[Barry growls]
It's okay to be scared.
You should be scared.
It's okay to be scared!
Give him a good hiding.
Okay, we're doing this.
We are doing this!
[Barry growling]
We're not doing this!
[screaming]
Hit him in the low area!
[slowed] Down there.
[slowed grunt]
[groans]
Oof. That's gotta hurt.
Ow, my Barry berries!
That will work.
[grunts proudly]
[Barry] Cheap shot, ape!
Wait...
[weakly] I haven't finished my treatment.
[groans]
[Chee-chee singing]
Go to sleep, baby tiger
Time to put those claws away
[Chee-chee sighs]
Anyway...
You need this more than I do.
Tell me I'm enough, Mummy.
I had 50 grand riding on that.
[sighs] Well, I won't pay that.
Ladies and gentlemen,
we have a winner.
Thanks for sticking with me, Doc.
[people yelling in panic]
I have it!
-I have it!
-[Man] Stop! Halt!
And now, I'll have it.
[sighs]
She had such a sure hand.
Exactly what the doctor ordered.
[chuckles]
[bellows]
What did they offer you, Mdfly,
to murder
the Queen of England?
Quite a few things, actually.
Knighthood. Windward House.
Chair of the Royal College.
In no particular order.
Oh, and the icing on the madeleine will be
the scientific accolades
that accrue from the proper study
of the Eden Tree.
All thanks to Lily Dolittle.
Actually, no.
That's still madeleine.
The icing is knowing that
you know I won.
Oh, and, Dolittle, I'm so sorry for
that hole in your boat.
What hole?
[Dab-dab] Abandon ship!
Everyone, overboard!
[animals screams]
[groans]
Oh. Not good.
[Chee-chee whimpers]
[Plimpton whimpers]
[Dab-dab] Don't look back.
[squawks]
Ahh! Help!
I'm on it, Doc!
I can't fly! [coughs]
And I can't swim!
Got you, buddy.
Plimpton, I'm not losing you, bro.
Step away from the light!
There is no light.
I'm alive! I'm alive!
I'm alive, thanks to you, Yoshi.
[Jip whining]
[softly] You've always been so kind.
It's difficult to say goodbye.
[sniffles]
Please don't say that.
It's all right.
You've done your best.
Your queen is proud.
[crying softly]
[whining]
Where are you, Dolittle?
[Yoshi] Hey, big bird, you doing okay?
[Plimpton] No.
Nothing about me is okay.
My father was right about me.
I should have been an omelet.
Pfft. I know how you feel.
My dad said he was going out
for a pack of seals one night
and never came back.
I guess we got something
in common after all, Plimpton.
What is this feeling?
I'm all warm and fuzzy inside.
That's friendship, bro.
Huh. Not bad,
bro.
[Kevin sniffling]
I'm not crying, you're crying.
[wailing]
[clears throat]
Right.
Gather round, shall we?
Huh? Let's have a look
where we are now.
[Poly] That's the spirit, John.
[sighs, chuckles]
Oh, this is gonna be good.
I'm already getting duck bumps.
We are finished.
[trills]
-Is this a pep talk?
-[gasps]
Cause it's a weird one.
I can sniff defeat like a truffle pig.
[Stubbins] This can't be the end.
[sniffing]
Yeah. I smell it.
-We can still save the queen.
-Nope.
-We can still save your house.
-Whoa-uh.
I believe in you.
-[laughing]
-We can keep going.
Oh, you've got a point there.
Except the journal's gone,
we've no way to find the Eden Tree,
and our boat is sunk.
He makes a strong argument.
[gulps]
[Dolittle] On the plus side,
you are all cured.
Chee-Chee, you are brave now.
Plimpton and Yoshi are getting along.
Ow. Remember, back! Back!
[Dolittle] Sort of.
And, Stubbins,
you've made friends,
and you can even talk to them.
You don't need me.
I'll stay here
and offer medical services to this island
of random bandits and outlaws.
[shouts]
The doctor's here. Seeking new patients.
Cash only.
Ladies, gentlemen,
who'd like to dance?
I've got a bad case of dancing fever.
So watch out, it's infectious.
[chants] Cha, cha,
cha, cha, cha, cha.
[groans] Can't help him.
That explorer you told me about,
she would have never given up.
She was your wife, wasn't she?
You wanna know the ironic bit?
I don't know what "ironic" means.
Irony is when you find a woman,
and she makes your life more wonderful
than it had any right to be,
and then, poof, she's gone,
and it's all your fault.
This journey was my chance
to finish what she started.
[sighs softly]
Lily insisted I care
for the animals at home,
so I stayed behind.
Rassouli's right.
I should have been with her.
Now, all I have left of her is
the ghost I see when I hold our rings.
[Rassouli] So, you see her, too?
[screeches]
[Yoshi grunts]
Not only did you lose
my daughter's journal...
[Yoshi grunts]
...but your polar bear
blew up my village.
We don't know that.
And your gorilla beat up my tiger.
No good.
[gasps]
Let's go.
[Guard] Here, stay.
[Rassouli] No, no, no.
Mm.
Yeah.
Irony
is me wanting to kill you
with every fiber of my being,
but loving my daughter more.
I miss her, too.
She would have wanted
you to keep going.
[Mini chatters]
[all sigh with relief]
-So!
-[gasps]
Get going,
before I stop feeling sentimental.
[quacking]
She's saying we don't have a ship.
[smacks lips] Well, uh,
I have the perfect vessel for you.
[Plimpton] Bit of a fixer-upper.
[Yoshi] It's got good bones.
[Dab-dab] At least it floats.
We'll just have to make the best
of it, won't we?
[Dab-dab yells]
[Man] Ooh. Company!
Uh, who's that?
Hi! I'm Jeff.
Crikey.
[chuckles]
[Poly] If Lily's research was correct,
then Mdfly was well on his way
to Eden Tree Island.
All we needed to do
was track Mdfly.
[Stubbins] But how do we do that?
Whales, boyo.
Whales.
[Whale 1] I can't believe
you're flipping him off.
[Whale 2] I know.
That man has no chin.
[grunts]
[whale calls]
[Humphrey] We found him.
Follow us.
Eden Tree Island.
[all exclaiming delightedly]
-Whew.
-[Yoshi] Oh, wow.
Extraordinary.
[Mdfly] This must be it.
The map points us
directly into the center
of this mountain.
[Dolittle] Don't look down.
Let's keep our beaks up, shall we?
[Plimpton] Trying to stay positive.
What the heck are we doing up here?
[Yoshi] Going in the back way,
my feathered buddy.
[Kevin] What are you
complaining about?
This is the widest branch
I've ever scurried on.
[Dolittle] Don't look down,
look at me.
[Plimpton] Whoa. A big cave.
[whispering]
Stay close, keep quiet.
[Kevin] Kevin's log, day 12.
Some force beyond my comprehension
still compels me
to follow this crew of lunatics,
the squirrel killer,
and their deranged leader.
Perhaps it's the magic tree
that draws me.
-[Soldier] Rifle troop!
-Hide. They're close.
-[Soldier] Fall in!
-Turn it down now. Stay down.
[gasps]
Foxfire fungus.
We must be near it now.
Look, Doc.
It's lighting a path all the way to
the man who wants us dead.
[Soldier] Stay right there.
[Dolittle groans]
[Soldier laughs]
Go on, then, soldier boy.
Spoil yourself.
[grunts]
[Yoshi roars]
Oh.
Hello, Blair.
[chuckles]
Looking for a tree, is it?
Trees don't often grow in caves.
Didn't you pay attention
in botany class?
No, but pay attention
to this, Dolittle.
I beat you!
You filthy animal...
-[Soldier] Move it. Come on, beasts.
-[groans]
...hoarder!
So, where is it?
Where's what?
[sighs]
The Eden Tree.
Truth is, I haven't got a clue.
Don't be ridiculous,
you're John Dolittle.
You get everything you want.
Not today, I don't.
You really don't have
any idea, do you?
How does ignorance feel?
Oh. [sniffles]
Well, very freeing, actually.
One must hug uncertainty,
don't you think?
That's how Lily lived her life.
[grunts quizzically]
Embrace the unknown,
and the answers will be revealed.
You sad, misguided nut, Dolittle.
Give that to me!
Give me that.
I might find
this damn tree on my own.
And, by God,
history will remember me.
Yeah. Something interesting
going on now.
[animals whimper]
[worried chatter]
[wind gusts]
[groans]
God, that feels a lot larger
than all of us.
[soldiers clamoring]
[Soldier] Something's moving!
[snarls]
[whimpers]
Look out!
[roars]
[Soldier] Retreat!
[Dolittle] Down over here,
the lot of you! Come on!
[Yoshi whimpers]
Yoshi, stay down!
He saved me.
I have a second chance
to live a life of kindness
and generosity. And...
[dragon growls]
[Mdfly gasps]
Take him, not me!
I'm a good person now.
[soldier yelps]
[screams]
[yells]
[cries out]
[plimpton gasps]
[screaming]
[fire spouting]
[quacks]
[squirting]
We're gonna make a run for that ditch
while she's distracted--
[both scream]
[Poly] Yoshi!
-Get this off of me!
-Cheech.
Help me! Plimpton!
I'll save you, bro!
Right. Think fast.
Get this off of me!
[grunts]
[yells]
This'll likely upset her a bit.
[Chee-chee] No! Doc!
-No!
-[Poly] John!
[Plimpton] No!
[animals screams]
[Plimpton] Dolittle!
[soldiers yelling]
[Stubbins and Plimpton whimper]
[Plimpton] Dolittle.
Help!
[Roars]
[loud spluttering]
[grunts]
[continues spluttering]
[grunting]
[dragon clicking]
[clicking tongue]
Is he speaking dragon?
[roars softly]
You may be able
to speak my language,
but that does not make you
worthy of the fruit.
I know protecting the tree
is your duty,
but you won't be able
to continue much longer,
[straining] considering the damage
you've taken and the pain you're in.
Oh, you know nothing of my pain.
But I do.
I've felt it as well.
The kind that doesn't come
from a bullet or a blade,
but cuts much deeper.
[clicking]
And how in every moment and
every movement, you feel that pain again.
Yeah? [grunting]
[clicking]
[straining]
It's hard to carry on
when you've lost the one you love.
[roaring]
[groans]
[moans]
[Dolittle grunting]
[Dragon] Just leave!
[roars weakly]
[panting]
[Dab-dab] Uh, what just happened?
Oh. Broken hearts.
What the heck are you doing here?
Don't worry, guys. I got this.
We're both dragons.
Hey, just wondering,
you know, dragon to dragon,
if you wouldn't mind telling me where...
Ow! Ow! Ow!
She's really mad.
I'll wait for whoever survives outside.
[Poly] John, let's just get out of here
while we still can.
No. I think we're here to help her.
[groaning weakly]
Yeah.
-We haven't got much time.
-[Plimpton] Hmm?
[Dolittle sighs]
Uh, I imagine it's a bit tender here?
[growls]
[Dolittle gasps]
[Plimpton] Oh...
[knife clatters]
[Dolittle] I'm unarmed.
I pose no threat to you.
The emotional stress over the years
has done damage to your stomach.
Get away from me.
You have a severe
impaction of the colon,
and if I don't manually
fragment it, it'll go septic.
You won't be able to protect
anything anymore. Hmm?
Ooh, that sounds like
some tummy ache.
I tell you what,
give us five minutes.
If you don't feel better,
you can fry us all.
[Dragon] Stop talking.
Just get on with it.
We have to get you on your side.
We need to perform
an emergency extraction.
Extraction? Uh,
what are we pulling out?
-[Poly] Go get 'em, gang!
-[Yoshi] Got your back, Doc.
[Dab-dab] It's showtime!
[Chee-chee] Three, two, one...
Turn.
[Dolittle] Chee-Chee,
chuck me the forceps.
Knew it would come in handy. Told ya!
Everybody knows what to do.
Just breathe. Works for me.
It's okay, just hold on
to my wing, sweetie.
Dab-Dab's here.
Oi!
You are my apprentice.
You keep her calm.
Did you know that the leek
is the national emblem of Wales?
[shushing]
And very useful it is, too.
You might feel a bit of pressure.
I got her.
[yelps] Good heavens!
Oh, no, you didn't.
Oh, my gosh!
Ah, just clearing the way.
Is that armor?
You got the whole
Spanish army in here.
Give us a deep breath.
-[inhales]
-Hold it.
-Word of warning.
-What's up, Doc?
When removing the blockage...
Yoshi, now.
...there may be
an initial release of wind.
[dragon farting]
[Kevin screams]
-[farting subsides]
-[coughs]
-[dragon farts]
-Ugh! [mutters]
Respect.
[whispering]
It's all right. Nobody heard that.
[holding breath]
Nothing to be ashamed of.
We all do it.
We're all animals.
I can taste it.
-Okay, I'm back. What did I miss?
-Right.
Oh, my gosh!
[growls]
[Dolittle] This is the big one.
We're in the home stretch now.
Cheech, get behind me.
I'm with you, Doc.
On your call.
Heave!
[roars]
[Plimpton screaming]
Oh, it's breaching.
Blood rushing to my head.
Everything turning red.
One last push, madam,
if you please.
[dragon grunting]
[yells]
[bagpipes blaring discordant notes]
[sighs]
Thank you.
We did it!
Teamwork makes the dream work.
[Plimpton groaning]
That was a lot, but we did good.
[grunts]
To put it simply,
more leafy greens
and less armor in your diet.
[sighs]
I've seen armies of every kind,
but nothing like you.
What unites such a group of creatures?
Well, we may not look it, right,
but somehow
we just belong together.
Now let me help you.
[Poly] Lily would have loved it, John.
We would never have found it
without her.
[Yoshi] Wow. I just got the chills,
and I'm not even cold.
[sighs]
[Dolittle] Thank you
for showing me the way, my love.
[Archbishop] We know, O Lord,
there is no word impossible to thee.
And that, if thou willst,
thou canst yet raise her up
and restore her to a longer continuance
amongst us.
O Father of mercies and the Lord of all,
comfort her health in time of need...
I'm sorry we couldn't
save you, Your Majesty.
[Archbishop] ...if her disillusion
draweth near.
It is with great sadness...
Wait a minute. [sniffing]
I smell something.
It smells like...
[grunting]
...hope!
[Lord Badgley] ...that I have
to announce...
[grunts]
...that the queen is no more.
Somebody call a doctor?
[Jip] My mates! A very dramatic
entrance, boys.
-Well played.
-[Dolittle] We've arrived.
Dolittle.
Clear a path. There isn't
a moment to waste.
[guards whimper]
[Dab-dab quacking]
I have procured
that which is said to not exist.
Behold, the fruit of the Eden Tree.
I said, clear a path.
Seize them!
-Sorry, but... Sorry.
-[screams]
[guards yelling]
[choking]
[Leona muttering]
-Go!
-[Guard] Seize him!
[both grunt]
You were born for this moment.
I born.
[groans]
Mini, take flight!
[Yoshi] Get in!
[Yoshi] Go, go, go!
No!
[chittering]
No, no, no!
[inhaling]
[chuckles softly]
[attendants exclaiming]
Kevin's log, day unknown.
The killing has ended.
Let there be life!
Lady Rose,
is there a giraffe in my bedchamber?
[Lady Rose] Yes. Oh, yes,
and a polar bear,
and a gorilla,
and a parrot, and a duck.
An ostrich.
[Jip barking]
Our humble thanks be to God.
And well done, Dr. Dolittle.
[Dolittle] Not quite done, are we?
[soft stridulating]
Interesting. Carry on,
Styx, I'm all ears.
[styx stridulating]
What's that?
Er, Styx here agreed to stay behind,
keep his 12 eyes on things.
He's just catching me up.
Like all leaf insects,
he speaks in
eight-syllable phrases,
and he states...
[styx stridulating]
[syllabically] "Lord Badgley
did poison the queen."
What? He did?
[scoffs] Really, Dolittle,
this is too much.
You're certain?
Well, this would be the time.
[stridulating]
No, I'm sorry.
Styx is quite adamant.
[syllabically] "In his right pocket,
the vial."
Ugh, that's only seven.
[stridulates]
Oh, in his right pocket.
"The vial of Deathly Nightshade."
Let's have a look, shall we?
You can't possibly believe that
he's talking to an insect.
Well...
I've spoken to ladybugs,
making a wish before they fly away.
Let's have a look.
[all exclaiming]
Ooh.
[quacking aggressively]
[roars]
[Kevin chitters]
No one messes with my family.
Take one more step,
and I'll rip you a brand-new--
[Guard] Come on!
[grunts]
[Dolittle] Ha!
To the Tower with him.
Ah! Someone's been a bad boy.
Come on.
And I don't know why you're all
standing there.
Nobody's died.
Leave me in peace.
You, too.
[attendants murmuring]
Not you, Dr. Dolittle.
A moment, if you would, please.
Lady Rose, who is this person,
and why is he staring at me?
He's Stubbins.
Uh, I want to be an animal doctor.
He saved your life.
[laughing]
[chuckles]
[mutter nervously]
Thank you.
It's good to have you back, Doctor.
-[styx stridulating]
-[grunts softly]
[Dolittle] Poly?
[Poly squawks]
[Poly] Anything you'd like
to say to me?
[Dolittle] Aye, you were right.
I suppose it is nice to get out
of the house every once in a while.
Stubbins. Mini.
Enough. We have far less important
places to be.
[Poly] Our story
ends the way it began.
[Postman] I have a letter
for Dr. Dolittle! Somebody get me down!
[Poly] Mostly.
There once was a peculiar doctor...
[Dolittle mimics cooing]
...who found
he was at his best
when sharing...
[mimics bird's vocalizations]
...his extraordinary
ability with others.
Excellent.
Soon, Doctor Dolittle
reopened his gates,
as Lily would have wanted.
Three more in the queue, gang.
Copy that.
[Poly] Dolittle discovered his place
in the world once again.
[puppies whimper]
[peacock screams]
[Poly] After all,
it's only by helping others
that we can truly help ourselves.
[Poly] Oh, and in case
you're wondering...
[inhales] Psst!
You bats.
Show me the way out of here.
Psst. [imitates chittering]
-[imitates pinging]
-[bat snarls]
[screeches]
[gasps]
You understand me!
[bats screeching]
No, wait! Wait, wait.
Wait! [screaming]